docs: add guide on Prisma and Platformatic (#682)
platformatic/platformatic: docs/guides/prisma.md

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this guide, you will need to have the following:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= v16.17.0 or >= v18.8.0
- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/) v7 or later
- A code editor, for example [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- A Platformatic DB project

## Setup Prisma

Install the [Prisma CLI](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-cli) and the [`db-diff`](https://github.com/ruheni/db-diff) development dependencies in your project:

```bash
npm install --save-dev prisma @ruheni/db-diff
```

Next, initialize Prisma in your project

```bash
npx prisma init
```

This command does the following:

- Creates a new directory called `prisma` which contains a file called `schema.prisma`. This file defines your database connection and the Prisma Client generator.
- Creates a `.env` file at the root of your project if it doesn't exist. This defines your environment variables (used for your database connection).

You can specify your preferred database provider using the `--datasource-provider` flag, followed by the name of the provider: 

```bash

> npx prisma init --datasource-provider mysql # or sqlite, sqlserver, cockroachdb

Author: ```suggestion
npx prisma init --datasource-provider postgres # or sqlite, mysql, sqlserver, cockroachdb
```

```

Prisma uses the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to connect to your database to sync your database and Prisma schema. It also uses the variable to connect to your database to run your Prisma Client queries. 

> If you're using PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, or CockroachDB, ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` used by Prisma is the same as the one used by Platformatic DB project. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you're using PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, or CockroachDB, ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` used by Prisma is the same as the one used by Platformatic DB project. If you're using SQLite, refer to the [Using Prisma with SQLite](#using-prisma-with-sqlite) section.
```

> # Adding Prisma with Platformatic

Reviewer: I'd suggest a more specific title:

```suggestion
# Integrate Prisma with Platformatic DB
```

[Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) is an open-source ORM for Node.js and TypeScript. It is used as an alternative to writing SQL, or using another database access tool such as SQL query builders (like [knex.js](https://knexjs.org/)) or ORMs (like [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) and [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/)). Prisma currently supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, MongoDB, and CockroachDB.

Prisma can be used with JavaScript or TypeScript, and provides a level to type-safety that goes beyond the guarantees made by other ORMs in the TypeScript ecosystem. You can find an in-depth comparison of Prisma against other ORMs [here](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/more/comparisons).

If you want to get a quick overview of how Prisma works, you can follow the [Quickstart](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/quickstart) or read the [Introduction](https://www.prisma.io/docs/understand-prisma/introduction) in the Prisma documentation. 

> ## How Prisma can improve your workflow with Platformatic DB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How Prisma can improve your workflow with Platformatic DB
```

To follow along with this guide, you will need to have the following:
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= v16.17.0 or >= v18.8.0
- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/) v7 or later
- A code editor, for example [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- A Platformatic DB project

## Setup Prisma

Install the [Prisma CLI](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-cli) and the [`db-diff`](https://github.com/ruheni/db-diff) development dependencies in your project:

```bash
npm install --save-dev prisma @ruheni/db-diff
```

Next, initialize Prisma in your project

```bash
npx prisma init
```

This command does the following:

- Creates a new directory called `prisma` which contains a file called `schema.prisma`. This file defines your database connection and the Prisma Client generator.
- Creates a `.env` file at the root of your project if it doesn't exist. This defines your environment variables (used for your database connection).

You can specify your preferred database provider using the `--datasource-provider` flag, followed by the name of the provider: 

```bash
npx prisma init --datasource-provider mysql # or sqlite, sqlserver, cockroachdb

> ```

Reviewer: As the default for `prisma init` is `postgres`, I would suggest using this command above instead.

Prisma uses the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to connect to your database to sync your database and Prisma schema. It also uses the variable to connect to your database to run your Prisma Client queries. 

> If you're using PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, or CockroachDB, ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` used by Prisma is the same as the one used by Platformatic DB project. 

Reviewer: I'd suggest adding a comment here that if you're using SQLite you should follow the 'Using Prisma with SQLite' section below.

> If you have an existing project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to an existing Platformatic DB project](#adding-prisma-to-an-existing-project) section. If you're adding Prisma to a new project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to a new project](#adding-prisma-to-an-new-project).

Reviewer: Broken link:

```suggestion
If you have an existing project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to an existing Platformatic DB project](#adding-prisma-to-an-existing-project) section. If you're adding Prisma to a new project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to a new project](#adding-prisma-to-a-new-project).
```

## Adding Prisma to an existing project

> If you have a brownfield Platformatic DB project, you can introspect your database and generate the data model in your Prisma schema with the following command:

Reviewer: I'd avoid the phrase "brownfield" as I'm not sure how widely it's understood.

```suggestion
If you have an existing Platformatic DB project, you can introspect your database and generate the data model in your Prisma schema with the following command:
```

```bash
npx prisma db pull
```

The command will introspect your database and generate the [data model](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model)

Next, add the `@@ignore` attribute to the `versions` model to exclude it from the Prisma Client API:

```diff
model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

+  @@ignore
}
```

To learn how you can evolve your database schema, you can jump to the [Evolving your database schema](#evolving-your-database-schema) section.

## Adding Prisma to a new project

> Define a `Post` model with the following fields in your `schema.prisma` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define a `Post` model with the following fields at the end of your `schema.prisma` file:
```

(This suggestion is related to the comment below on the code block)

> ```groovy

Reviewer: I'll enable Groovy syntax highlighting in our Docusaurus configuration so these code blocks are rendered correctly.

// prisma/schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgres"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")

> }

Reviewer: To keep things concise, I think these two blocks above can be removed as they will already exist in `schema.prisma`.

> generator client {
>   provider = "prisma-client-js"
> }
> 
> datasource db {
>   provider = "postgres"
>   url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
> }

Author: ```suggestion
```

model Post {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean  @default(false)
  viewCount Int      @default(0)
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}
```

The snippet above defines a `Post` model with the following fields and properties:
- `id`: An auto-incrementing integer that will be the primary key for the model.
- `title`: A non-nullable `String` field.
- `content`: A nullable `String` field.
- `published`: A `Boolean` field with a default value of false.
- `viewCount`: An `Int` field with a default value of 0.
- `createdAt`: A `DateTime` field with a timestamp of when the value is created as its default value.

Next, run the following command to generate an up and down migration:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

npx db-diff
```

The previous command will generate both an `up` and `down` migration based on your schema. The generated migration is stored in your `./migrations` directory. If you are currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.

You can then apply the generated migration using the Platformatic DB CLI:

```bash
npx platformatic db migrations apply
```

Platformatic uses [Postgrator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/postgrator) to run migrations. Postgrator creates a table in the database called `versions` to track the applied migrations. Since the `versions` table is not yet captured in the Prisma schema, run the following command to introspect the database and populate it with the missing model:

```
npx prisma db pull
```

Introspecting the database to populate the model prevents including the `versions` table in the generated down migrations.

> Your Prisma schema should now contain the `versions` model as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Prisma schema should now contain a `versions` model that is similar to this one (it will vary depending on the database system you're using):
```

  viewCount Int      @default(0)
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}

+model versions {
+  version BigInt    @id
+  name    String?
+  md5     String?
+  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)
+}
```

Add the `@@ignore` attribute function to the model to exclude it from the Prisma Client API:

```diff
model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

+  @@ignore
}
```
### Evolving your database schema

Update the data model in your Prisma schema by adding a model or a field:

```diff
// based on the schema in the "Adding Prisma to a new project" section
+model User {
+  id    Int     @id @default(autoincrement())
+  email String  @unique
+  name  String?
+  posts Post[]
+}

model Post {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean  @default(false)
  viewCount Int      @default(0)
+  author    User?    @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
+  authorId  Int?
}

model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

  @@ignore

> }

Reviewer: I'd suggest removing this model from the code block for conciseness.

```

Next, use the `@ruheni/db-diff` CLI tool to generate `up` and `down` migrations:

```bash
npx db-diff
```

This command will generate up and down migrations based off of your Prisma schema. If you are currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.

Next, apply the generated migration using the Platformatic CLI:

```bash
npx platformatic db migrations apply
```

And you're done!

> ## Extending functionality with Plugins using Prisma Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Prisma Client in your plugins
```

:::danger

> The following functionality is only supported on Node v18 

Reviewer: What tool/library introduces this requirement?

Author: Platformatic crashes when using Prisma Client in a plugin. I'm not sure why but you can find more details in this GH issue comment: https://github.com/platformatic/platformatic/issues/160#issuecomment-1274887993

Reviewer: Ok, I'm going to look into this. Are you running your Platformatic DB app on macOS or another operating system?

Author: Yes, I was running it on MacOS.

:::

You can use Prisma Client to 
```bash
npx prisma generate
```

> The above command will generate Prisma Client based off your Prisma schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command installs the `@prisma/client` in your project and generates a Prisma Client based off of your Prisma schema.
```

> ```js

Reviewer: This code block could use an introductory sentence explaining that it's a Fastify plugin and should be added to a plugin script that is configured in your Platformatic app configuration.

I'd suggest linking to the 'Add Custom Functionality' guide too, using this path: `/docs/guides/add-custom-functionality/introduction.md` (it works on GitHub and for the rendered docs in Docusaurus).

// 2
const prisma = new PrismaClient()

module.exports = async (app) => {
  app.log.info('plugin loaded')

  //3.
  app.graphql.extendSchema(`
    extend type Mutation {
      incrementPostViewCount(id: ID): Post
    }
  `)

  //4.
  app.graphql.defineResolvers({
    Mutation: {
      incrementPostViewCount: async (_, { id }) => {
        // 5. 
        const post = await prisma.post.update({
          where: {
            id: Number(id)
          },
          data: {
            viewCount: {
              increment: 1
            }
          }
        })

        // 6.
        if (!post) throw new Error(`Post with id:${id} was not found`)
        // 7.
        return post
      }
    }
  })
}
```

The previous snippet does the following:

1. Imports Prisma Client.
1. Creates a new instance of Prisma Client.
1. Defines the `incrementPostViewCount` mutation type definition. It also defines the corresponding argument and the return type.
1. Defines the resolver for your mutation.
1. Makes a query to the database on the Post model to increment a post's view count.
1. Adds error handling in the event a record with the matching id was not found.
1. Returns the updated post on success.

> Once you start your server, the query should be included in your GraphQL schema.

Reviewer: For completeness, I'd suggest including the command for starting the server here in a code block (`npx platformatic db start`).

> You can also use Prisma Client to define REST API endpoints.

Reviewer: The wording is a little unclear here, I'd suggest:

```suggestion
You can also use the Prisma Client in your REST API endpoints, for example:
```

And then I would move the REST endpoint code block from below here.

> Alternatively, you can use the [`@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma`](https://github.com/sabinadams/fastify-prisma) plugin to query your database using Prisma Client. 

Reviewer: The `@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma` plugin takes care of correctly shutting down the database connection and can be used to make the Prisma Client available in all Fastify plugins that are loaded in the application.

Are there any benefits to importing `PrismaClient` and creating a client instance vs using the plugin? If not, I would suggest integrating the steps for using plugin in to the previous steps and removing the direct usage of `PrismaClient` above.

Author: The Plugin currently uses Prisma v4.2.0. I've created a PR to make Prisma Client a peer dependency instead of a dependency. Once the PR is merged, I can update this section.

Reviewer: Does the mismatch between the 4.x minor versions of `@prisma/client` cause any issue?

Reviewer: For the purposes of this guide, I'm not sure that's an issue. Would you be happy to update this section anyway?

          },
          data: {
            viewCount: {
              increment: 1
            }
          }
        })

        if (!post) throw new Error(`Post with id:${id} was not found`)
        return post
      }
    }
  })
}
```

Start the server: 

```bash
npx platformatic db start
```

The query should now be included in your GraphQL schema.

You can also use the Prisma Client in your REST API endpoints.

## Workarounds

### Using Prisma with SQLite

Currently, Prisma doesn't resolve the file path of a SQLite database the same way as Platformatic does. 

If your database is at the root of the project, create a new environment variable that Prisma will use called `PRISMA_DATABASE_URL`:

```bash
# .env
DATABASE_URL="sqlite://db.sqlite"
PRISMA_DATABASE_URL="file:../db.sqlite"
```

Next, update the `url` value in the `datasource` block in your Prisma schema with the updated value:

```groovy title="prisma/schema.prisma"
// ./prisma/schema.prisma
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("PRISMA_DATABASE_URL")
}
```

Running migrations should now work smoothly and the path will be resolved correctly.

### Foreign keys and table names naming conventions

> Foreign key names should use underscores, e.g. `author_id`, or Platformatic DB to correctly map relations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Foreign key names should use underscores, e.g. `author_id`, for Platformatic DB to correctly map relations.
```

1. Defines the resolver for your mutation.
1. Makes a query to the database on the Post model to increment a post's view count.
1. Adds error handling in the event a record with the matching id was not found.
1. Returns the updated post on success.

Once you start your server, the query should be included in your GraphQL schema.

You can also use Prisma Client to define REST API endpoints.

Alternatively, you can use the [`@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma`](https://github.com/sabinadams/fastify-prisma) plugin to query your database using Prisma Client. 

Install the plugin:
```bash
npm install @sabinthedev/fastify-prisma
```

Register the plugin:

```js
const prismaPlugin = requrie("@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma")

module.exports = async (app) => {
  app.log.info('plugin loaded')
  
  app.register(prismaPlugin)
  
  /** 
   * Plugin logic
   */
    app.put('/post/:id/views', async (req, reply) => {
  
    const { id } = req.params
    
    const post = await app.prisma.post.update({
      where: {
        id: Number(id)
      },
      data: {
        viewCount: {
          increment: 1
        }
      }
    })

>     if (!post) reply.code(404).send({ error: `Post with id:${id} was not found` })

Author: ```suggestion
    if (!post) {
       reply.code(404).send({ error: `Post with id:${id} was not found` })
    }
```

# Adding Prisma with Platformatic

> [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) is an open-source ORM for Node.js and TypeScript. It is used as an alternative to writing plain SQL, or using another database access tool such as SQL query builders (like [knex.js](https://knexjs.org/)) or ORMs (like [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) and [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/)). Prisma currently supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, MongoDB and CockroachDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) is an open-source ORM for Node.js and TypeScript. It is used as an alternative to writing SQL, or using another database access tool such as SQL query builders (like [knex.js](https://knexjs.org/)) or ORMs (like [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) and [Sequelize](https://sequelize.org/)). Prisma currently supports PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, MongoDB, and CockroachDB.
```

```bash
npm install --save-dev prisma @ruheni/db-diff
```

Next, initialize Prisma in your project

```bash
npx prisma init
```

This command does the following:

- Creates a new directory called `prisma` which contains a file called `schema.prisma`. This file defines your database connection and the Prisma Client generator.
- Creates a `.env` file at the root of your project if it doesn't exist. This defines your environment variables (used for your database connection).

You can specify your preferred database provider using the `--datasource-provider` flag, followed by the name of the provider: 

```bash
npx prisma init --datasource-provider mysql # or sqlite, sqlserver, cockroachdb
```

Prisma uses the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to connect to your database to sync your database and Prisma schema. It also uses the variable to connect to your database to run your Prisma Client queries. 

If you're using PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server or CockroachDB, ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` used by Prisma is the same as the one used by Platformatic DB project. 

> In case you have an existing project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to an existing Platformatic DB project](#adding-prisma-to-an-existing-project) section. If you're adding Prisma to a new project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to a new project](#adding-prisma-to-an-new-project).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have an existing project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to an existing Platformatic DB project](#adding-prisma-to-an-existing-project) section. If you're adding Prisma to a new project, refer to the [Adding Prisma to a new project](#adding-prisma-to-an-new-project).
```

## Adding Prisma to an existing project

If you have a brownfield Platformatic DB project, you can introspect your database and generate the data model in your Prisma schema with the following command:

```bash
npx prisma db pull
```

The command will introspect your database and generate the [data model](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/data-model)

Next, add the `@@ignore` attribute to the `versions` model to exclude it from the Prisma Client API:

```diff
model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

+  @@ignore
}
```

> To learn how you can evolve your database schema, you can jump to the [Evolving your database schema](#evolving-your-database-schema)section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how you can evolve your database schema, you can jump to the [Evolving your database schema](#evolving-your-database-schema) section.
```

## Adding Prisma to a new project

Define a `Post` model with the following fields in your `schema.prisma` file:
```groovy
// prisma/schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgres"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

model Post {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean  @default(false)
  viewCount Int      @default(0)
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}
```

> The snippet above defines a model called Post with the following fields and properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The snippet above defines a `Post` model with the following fields and properties:
```

- `id`: An auto-incrementing integer that will be the primary key for the model.
- `title`: A non-null `String` field.
- `content`: A nullable `String` field.
- `published`: A `Boolean` field with a default value of false.
- `viewCount`: An `Int` field with a default value of 0.
- `createdAt`: A `DateTime` field with a timestamp of when the value is created as its default value.

Next, run the following command to generate an up and down migration:

```
npx db-diff
```

> The above command  will generate both an `up` and `down` migration based on your schema. The generated migration is stored in your `./migrations` directory. If you're currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous command will generate both an `up` and `down` migration based on your schema. The generated migration is stored in your `./migrations` directory. If you are currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.
```

Platformatic uses [Postgrator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/postgrator) to run migrations. Postgrator creates a table in the database called `versions` to track the applied migrations. Since the `versions` table is not yet captured in the Prisma schema, run the following command to introspect the database and populate it with the missing model:

```
npx prisma db pull
```

Introspecting the database to populate the model prevents including the `versions` table in the generated down migrations.

Your Prisma schema should now contain the `versions` model as follows:

```diff
model Post {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean  @default(false)
  viewCount Int      @default(0)
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
}

+model versions {
+  version BigInt    @id
+  name    String?
+  md5     String?
+  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)
+}
```

Add the `@@ignore` attribute function to the model to exclude it from the Prisma Client API:

```diff
model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

+  @@ignore
}
```
### Evolving your database schema

> Update your data model in your Prisma schema by adding a model or a field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the data model in your Prisma schema by adding a model or a field:
```

```diff
// based on the schema in the "Adding Prisma to a new project" section
+model User {
+  id    Int     @id @default(autoincrement())
+  email String  @unique
+  name  String?
+  posts Post[]
+}

model Post {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean  @default(false)
  viewCount Int      @default(0)
+  author    User?    @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
+  authorId  Int?
}

model versions {
  version BigInt    @id
  name    String?
  md5     String?
  run_at  DateTime? @db.Timestamptz(6)

  @@ignore
}
```

> Next, use the `@ruheni/db-diff` CLI tool to generate an `up` and `down` migration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, use the `@ruheni/db-diff` CLI tool to generate `up` and `down` migrations:
```

```bash
npx db-diff
```

> The command will generate an up and down migration based off your Prisma schema. If you're currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will generate up and down migrations based off of your Prisma schema. If you are currently using a different path to store the migration, you can provide the `--migrations-dir` flag followed by the path.
```

Next, apply the generated migration using the Platformatic CLI:

```bash
npx platformatic db migrations apply
```

And you're done!

## Extending functionality with Plugins using Prisma Client

:::danger
The following functionality is only supported on Node v18 
:::

You can use Prisma Client to 
```bash
npx prisma generate
```

> The above

Reviewer 2: This line doesn't make sense.

> The above

Author: ```suggestion
The above command will generate Prisma Client based off your Prisma schema
```

```js
// ./plugin.js

// 1. 
const { PrismaClient } = require("@prisma/client")

// 2
const prisma = new PrismaClient()

module.exports = async (app) => {
  app.log.info('plugin loaded')

  //3.
  app.graphql.extendSchema(`
    extend type Mutation {
      incrementPostViewCount(id: ID): Post
    }
  `)

  //4.
  app.graphql.defineResolvers({
    Mutation: {
      incrementPostViewCount: async (_, { id }) => {
        // 5. 
        const post = await prisma.post.update({
          where: {
            id: Number(id)
          },
          data: {
            viewCount: {
              increment: 1
            }
          }
        })

        // 6.
        if (!post) throw new Error(`Post with id:${id} was not found`)
        // 7.
        return post
      }
    }
  })
}
```

> The above snippet does the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous snippet does the following:
```

1. Defines the resolver for your mutation.
1. Makes a query to the database on the Post model to increment a post's view count.
1. Adds error handling in the event a record with the matching id was not found.
1. Returns the updated post on success.

Once you start your server, the query should be included in your GraphQL schema.

You can also use Prisma Client to define REST API endpoints.

Alternatively, you can use the [`@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma`](https://github.com/sabinadams/fastify-prisma) plugin to query your database using Prisma Client. 

Install the plugin:
```bash
npm install @sabinthedev/fastify-prisma
```

Register the plugin:

```js
const prismaPlugin = requrie("@sabinthedev/fastify-prisma")

module.exports = async (app) => {
  app.log.info('plugin loaded')
  
  app.register(prismaPlugin)
  
  /** 
   * Plugin logic
   */
    app.put('/post/:id/views', async (req, reply) => {
  
    const { id } = req.params
    
    const post = await app.prisma.post.update({
      where: {
        id: Number(id)
      },
      data: {
        viewCount: {
          increment: 1
        }
      }
    })

>     

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra blank line.

> 
>     

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     if (!post) reply.code(404).send({ error: `Post with id:${id} was not found` })

Reviewer 2: It looks like this wall call `send()` twice. Is that intentional?

    
    return reply.send(post)
  })
}
```

## Workarounds

### Using Prisma with SQLite

Currently, Prisma doesn't resolve the file path of a SQLite database the same way as Platformatic does. 

If your database is at the root of the project, create a new environment variable that Prisma will use called `PRISMA_DATABASE_URL`:
```bash
# .env
DATABASE_URL="sqlite://db.sqlite"
PRISMA_DATABASE_URL="file:../db.sqlite"
```

> Next, update `url` value the `datasource` block in your Prisma schema with the updated value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, update the `url` value in the `datasource` block in your Prisma schema with the updated value:
```
